Welcome everyone.
In this tutorial we will see when to use tabulation and how to use memorization.
And how does all of this work?
By calling it a little bit on the let me quickly board this Fibonacci numbers part using memorization
first.
Right.
So let's write a normal recursive relation that we have defined in the second part over here, which
is f often is inclusive of N minus one plus F over and minus two.
Right?
So here what I'll do is simply say see out its right, a function which will give me Fibonacci numbers
and the spastic st.
That means it will give me the sixth Fibonacci number.
Well, the void, I hope the jaundice.
But it is bib not white.
It will be in digital.
It will me.
And so yeah I figured isn't in the end for when I can.
And so what if an is less than equal to do didn't.
But these are the best cases, if any one or two admitted in one.
And the call for when I give zero will never be called.
Why?
Because if I can.
What if I.
Come on, we're going to give 3 billion equal one into and one in two will never call what's behind
them because they will come into basis.
Otherwise what I'll do is.
And simply return for when I kill off.
And minus one plus one and Q and minus two.
Always.
Let's bring this.
What does the fix for an acronym but it is it in this case so it is one one.
The number one is two.
One, two, three.
It is five and five, five plus three.
That is the six four when I give number eight.
Now I just want to count that.
How many times as this of.
Being called this function called fib has been called.
So I've just added a counter and I just want to count how many times.
Is this being?
Right.
So as we can see, to just find 60 when taking numbers.
The recursion is being called 15 times.
This function is being formed 15 times.
Right.
Because let's come back here.
When I five above six, it's called five and four and five again, calls for entry in four.
Again cost 3 to 8.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15.
We can see we are 15 states over here in this because of relation eight.
That's a that's what we want to optimize.
We want to optimize this because of relation by applying memorization in this case.
Eight Why does memorization then if a fourth end is being.
Like if it is calculated once, then please don't calculate it again.
How do we do that?
So firstly, what we simply say is, let's take.
And.
Yeah, let me take it up again.
It doesn't.
We can also go back to the because that will be dynamic.
So let's pick a victor.
And let's call it memo.
Well, initially what I'll do is I'll take it in.
And let's say any six, if any six, what I do is I'll simply the memo Dorothy says and I'll say, and
+15 plus one, because I want the numbers from 1 to 6 and I say the vector F and plus one, say the
infinite written minus one initially and simply pass and to the Fibonacci number they were ever defined
globally.
Yes.
Because.
I want to use this memo in this function eight.
So here you are.
You don't understand how to use my music, and I'll give you some different ways of using it.
And those are really cool ways.
So here it is.
Memo during season plus one and minus one and I have this the old Fibonacci often will this be when
I given is being called before that I filled the memo pad the memo vector with minus and later it's
an error basically of land and plus one filled with minus one, initially eight.
So what I do is guys, I simply say.
Memo of end is not equal to minus one.
What does this mean if it is not equal to minus one?
I simply written.
And more often that means.
This is the memorization.
But, guys.
Yeah.
So before this, let me have the bass case with the count eight.
Here is the memorization part and here is the because if relation, this is what it is overlapping.
So problems and this is what it means.
Optimal substructure right now is a mammoth and will always be equal to minus one because we are never
filling them often.
Okay.
So what we'll do here is whenever we are returning.
These two towns will never be returning.
The fee would take off.
And so here we will simply save it.
What we'll do is we'll see.
A memo often is equal to three when your friend minus one, percent minus.
Now it's become so easy, right?
If mammoth and isn't, it's not called.
That means if it is not filled, then it will simply call this because of relation.
It will fill that mammal bird or that and part the end time of be.
And it will tell you after saving it when the next day I come to the same and it will not call the of
the nation, it will never reach the line number 19.
It will simply return back from line number 17 by because now the memo and is already will do minus
one because the previous call to the same and I fill it while returning it.
Eight.
So let me bring this.
The goals have been reduced to nine eight.
So here we can see there's a lot of.
Optimization happening, right?
Well, let's see.
Let me simply ignore the memorization part and let me be for any good student.
It didn't feel like a number.
But here we can see we have this 59 and.
The calls being made of 100 names when a Plymouth musician enlisted will be calculated twice.
How many?
Yeah, so far, ten how many times.
Now it has been called 17 names on the Adelaide, what's been called 108.
So whenever.
So this count is actually for a state when it whenever it is being called always good.
Here.
You can see the difference, guys.
So let's talk about NGOs for 20.
If we can have we can see that this is a value of any ghostwritten B and only 37 times.
It's always pleasant to win.
Only 37 times this function has been called.
But if I remove the memorization part.
We can see that how many times it is being called?
13,529.
Either difference it 13,529 and 37 just 37 calls.
We are giving the same answer.
Where?
Earlier without permission.
The same answer was being formed in one on 13,539 calls.
Oh, isn't that great, guys?
We have optimized the Fibonacci number by trade.
This really was only for the beginners who do not understand what is tabulation and memorization.
For them, this is a very basic example and community.
Read.
Now coming on to the next part, which is.
It is.
Tabulation late so the memorization is done alleged.
Let's do tabulation in tabulation.
As I said, it will already have a picture and will be using file loops instead of recursive deletions.
Utility anecdotes for 20.
And I want to find out this.
What is it going to give you?
So what I'll do is I'll simply say and plus one, I simply fill it in the tabulation form.
I believe in the best guesses first.
So Fibonacci of uneasy close to Fibonacci of two is equal to one.
Well, the base cases are done now one into his food now and start from three.
I start from three, I go, Dylan.
And what I do is I simply say, if we're going to cure physical stuff, we're going to cure five minus
one.
Plus we're going to give a minus to.
Always so.
Why will this work?
It will work because.
I started from like two, three in the first iteration when I got really claustrophobic.
You have two plus one and two plus one has already been filled.
Now when I guess when I give three is being four.
Right now you're doing eight plus plus.
The eye is on four.
So when it is four, when you go for it is equal to Fibonacci of three plus we are going to give two
which are already being filled because when I came before, when I was equal to four, then it is already
calculated.
I go to three and I go through two and I go to one.
So if I am on I was ten, that means from 1 to 9 from when I came has already been filled.
Eight ahead.
We will only here will exactly take an iterations, eight two iterations over here and then minus two
iterations over here, eight here.
We won't have to in complexity.
But yes, the tabulation approach is a little trickier to go trade because here we use only for loops.
Here we have to like.
Use these four loops in a specific manner.
Sometimes we have to use Blizzard for loop.
Sometimes we have to use forward for loops and here we have to worry about out of index thing things
we have to like apply some.
Conditions in Kabul.
So it's kind of a little trickier.
But yeah, this is like.
It's secure, but it's not effective.
If you solve all those 26 problems and will use both top down in bottom up approaches, then it will
become easier.
But if you are a big net or even an intermediate, I would suggest you to use the top down approach
first, because top down approach will give you the logic building part.
It will like make you understand how to write recursive relations, how to write dynamic programming,
recursive relations.
And then we don't have to do anything.
Just write a normal recorded relation and apply memorization.
Okay, so let's say if it was in an m, let's say this was a 2D deep part.
So here I would have taken a memo and then made memo and and so on.
Okay.
So if I have to states, then I have to take.
Now do like memories it.
In Italy.
People in Italy remember it.
So we'll see.
We'll keep on doing good when it comes to us in those trying to fix problems.
But I hope you understood how to do the tabulation part and how to do the memorization part.
So.
Thank you, everyone.
See you in the next part.